Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

legends & adventurersforbidden landsCONTENTSBackstories 3Legend Generator 27Monster Generator 32This booklet lets you flesh out your player characters and give them unique backstories with a few dice rolls. The booklet also contains random tables for creating dramatic legends and dangerous monsters in the Forbidden Lands.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories32REFERENCE GUIDE FOR ROLLING UP AN ADVENTURER1. Roll or choose on the table for your kin (page 3).   Write down the kin talent (page 33 in the Player’s Handbook) for your kin.2. Roll or choose on the table for your home region (page 4).3. Roll once on the table for your childhood for your kin (pages 5–14).   Write down your attributes based on the roll.   Write down your skills based on the roll.4. Roll or choose on the table for profession (page 15).5. Roll or choose on the table for profession talent (page 15).6. Roll once on the table for formative events for your profession (page 16–23).   Write down skills you acquire based on the roll.   Write down the talent you acquire based on the roll.   Write down any gear you acquire based on the roll.7. You are now Young. You can choose whether you want to start the game Young (go to step 10), or if you want to roll once more for Formative events and  become Adult (repeat step 6, then go to step 8). For Elves, progressing to step 8 is mandatory.8. You are now Adult. Lower an attribute of your choosing one point. You can choose whether you want to start the game as an Adult (go to step 10) or if you want to roll once more for Formative events and become Old (repeat step 6, then go to step 9). Elves must go directly to step 10.9. You are now Old. Lower an attribute of your choosing by one point. No attri-bute can go to zero. You must now start the game, by going to step 10.10. You may redistribute one attribute point of your choice, up to a maximum of 6 in the key attribute of your kin or profession (see the Player’s Handbook).11. Roll once on the table How Did You Meet? on pages 24–26 to determine how you met the other adventurers in the group. Joined together, these events will form a  narrative of how your group was formed. One player doesn’t roll.12. (Optional) Roll a D3 for Pride, Dark Secret, and relationships with other  adventurers. Use the examples in the descriptions of professions in Chapter 2 in the Player’s Handbook and count from the top.13. Start the game with silver and Resource Dice according to your profession  description in Chapter 2 of the Player’s Handbook.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories32BACKSTORIESWith the help of the following  tables you can easily and quickly roll up an adventurer, complete with childhood and formative events. This alternate method of creating your adventurer is com-pletely optional, and something that you as a group should decide amongst yourselves if you are going to use or not.If you do, these rules fully replace the nor-mal character generation rules in Chapter 2 of the Player’s Handbook, except when indicated otherwise below.You may also, at the Gamemaster’s discre-tion, use some of the tables below but not all of them. Some players enjoy letting the dice con-trol the entire process, while others may want to choose what kin and profession to play. Find the method that works best for you.D66KIN11–22Alderlander Human23–31Aslene Human32–34Ailander Human35–41Half-Elf42–44Halfling45–52Goblin53–56Orc61–62Wolfkin63–64Dwarf65–66ElfBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories4HOME REGIOND6ALDERLANDER HUMANASLENE  HUMANAILANDER HUMANHALF-ELFHALFLING1The edge of Arina ForestThe fields of MargeldaThe fields of MargeldaThe fields of MargeldaThe meadows of Belifar2The plains of MoldenaThe fields of MargeldaThe shores of Anger BayThe plains of MoldenaThe meadows of Belifar3The plains of MoldenaThe Yendra steppesThe plains of MoldenaThe Vivend grasslandsThe meadows of Belifar4The shores of Lake VardaThe Yendra steppesThe plains of MoldenaThe edge of DankwoodThe meadows of Belifar5The fields of MargeldaThe plains of MoldenaThe Vivend grasslandsThe edge of Arina forestThe fields of Margelda6The Harga WastesThe dark-ness of The ShroudThe shores of Lake VardaThe Harga WastesThe plains of MoldenaD6GOBLINORCWOLFKINDWARFELF1The gloom of FangwoodsDeep in the Grooveland WoodsThe gloom of FangwoodsThe moun-tains of MoldenaThe depths of Dankwood2The gloom of FangwoodsDeep in the Grooveland WoodsThe gloom of FangwoodsThe crags of Far VivendThe depths of Dankwood3The gloom of FangwoodsThe depths of Arina ForestDeep in the Groveland WoodsThe crags of Far VivendThe edge of Dankwood4The groves of The ShroudThe depths of Arina ForestDeep in the Groveland WoodsThe peaks of northern FeulenmarkThe dwellings of Vivend5The groves of The ShroudThe depths of Arina ForestThe depths of Arina ForestThe peaks of northern FeulenmarkThe dwellings of Far Vivend6Deep in the Groveland WoodsThe Harga WastesThe groves of The ShroudThe northern mountains of BeldersandThe island of MaidenholmBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories54D6CHILDHOOD, ALDERLANDERATTRIBUTESSKILLS1ORPHANED. You have never met your mother or father, never had a family.  Since you were little you’ve had to care for yourself. It has hardened you and made you strong, but a feeling of root­lessness gnaws within you.Strength 3Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 4Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Sleight of Hand 1Survival 1Insight 12HERDER. You were taught as a child that livestock are the source of life. As an ap-prentice, you wandered the plains around your village, guarding your herd. You spent your nights sleeping close to the herd, dreaming of adventure.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Might 1Crafting 1Scouting 2Animal Handling 23VAGABOND. You and your family traveled from village to village, hiding from the Blood Mist, making a living doing simple jobs. You never had a real home, every day was a new adventure. You learned to live off the land, and the importance of staying together.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Survival 2Insight 14SQUIRE. You served a proud warrior.  Carried her weapons and gear, took care of her horse, and learned everything you could. You dreamed of making a name for yourself in the Forbidden Lands, of one day being your own master.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Endurance 1Melee 2Marksmanship 1 Move 1Healing 15LABORER. You worked on a farm perform-ing menial laborious chores. You know everything about grains, cattle, and crops. But deep inside you longed for something else.Strength 5Agility 3Wits 3Empathy 4Might 2Melee 1Crafting 1Survival 1Animal Handling 16HARD STUDIES. A learned man or woman took you under his/her wing and set you to studying the elder writings. The days were long, the learning hard, but in the end, you found that knowledge was the key to the world.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 4Crafting 1Lore 3Insight 1Manipulation 1Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories6D6CHILDHOOD, ASLENEATTRIBUTESSKILLS1BORN IN THE SADDLE. You have always felt more kinship with animals than humans, and it is only on the back of your horse, with the wind whipping your face, that you feel truly free. Together you are one entity, riding across everlasting expanses in the name of the god Horn. Strength 4Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 3Move 2Survival 2Animal Handling 22DREAMER. You have always dreamed of gods, legends, and myths. Ever since you were a tiny tot, you sat by the campfire lis-tening to the clan’s minstrel telling stories of the volcano god Horn, proud ancestors, and demonic invasions. It is in the dreams of your people, of heroes and legends, that you live to the fullest. Maybe one day you’ll be able to create a legend of your own?Strength 3Agility 3Wits 4Empathy 5Lore 2Manipulation 1 Performance 2Animal Handling 13STRONGEST OF THE CLAN. Already as a child you learned that you were bigger and stronger than others. You had to work harder, be more responsible, fight the hardest. Some idolized you, others despised you.Strength 5Agility 3Wits 3Empathy 4Might 2Endurance 1Melee 2Animal Handling 14TAUGHT BY A WISE WOMAN. As a child you befriended a wise woman of the clan. Soon you became her apprentice, and learned all about the history of your people, of ancient feats of heroism, and bloody wars.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 4Lore 2Insight 1Healing 2Animal Handling 15HUNTER. As a child you learned to live in tune with nature. The hunt is your task, and even if you learned to kill, you also learned to honor the value of the life of every animal.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Marksmanship 2Scouting 2Survival 1Animal Handling 16CHILD OF THE WINDS. You were chosen as a Child of the Winds and set out on a long pilgrimage to the highlands. Traveling by day, hiding from the Blood Mist by night. You fulfilled your duty, but to this day you are still unsure of where you feel at home. Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Melee 1Marksmanship 1Endurance 1Survival 2Animal Handling 1Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories76D6CHILDHOOD, AILANDERATTRIBUTESSKILLS1CHILD OF THE RAVEN. You grew up among the Raven Sisters, and learned to  venerate the Raven god. You learned to fear the Rust Brothers, and to live off the land. It is in the wind that you feel the most free.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Crafting 1Move 1Scouting 1Lore 2Insight 12DRUID’S APPRENTICE. You were  apprenticed to a druid, and learned everything you could of the holy mysteries, of rituals and sorcery. Your master is long dead, but you still remember his/her words.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 5Empathy 3Scouting 1Lore 1Survival 2Healing 1Animal Handling 13GUARDIAN. The Ailanders were always an oppressed and hunted people. You realized this early on, and were trained to protect your people from dangers with shield and sword in hand. You were soon hardened by battle, and wear the scars to prove it.Strength 5Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 3Might 1Melee 2Marksmanship 2Move 14WANDERER. You had no fixed place in life, the road was your home, and you learned to find shelter from the Blood Mist every night. Already as a child, you had seen more of the land than most.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Survival 2Animal Handling 15LABORER. You worked on a farm perform-ing menial, laborious chores. You know everything about grains, cattle, and crops. But deep inside, you longed for something else.Strength 5Agility 3Wits 3Empathy 4Might 2Melee 1Crafting 1Survival 1Animal Handling 16HERDER. You were taught as a child that livestock are the source of life. As an ap-prentice, you wandered the plains around your village, guarding your herd. You spent your nights sleeping close to the herd, dreaming of adventure.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Might 1Crafting 1Scouting 2Animal Handling 2Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories8D6CHILDHOOD, HALF-ELFATTRIBUTESSKILLS1ON THE RUN. You have always been on the run from something. Never felt safe, and never had a lasting home. You have trav-eled from village to village in the Forbid-den Lands, but have never been able to sleep with your back to the door.Strength 4Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 3Melee 1Stealth 2Scouting 2Insight 12ARTIST. Already as a child you discovered that you had a talent for artistic endeav-ors. It was in the arts and performance that you found peace, that was where you lived life to the fullest.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 4Empathy 5Crafting 2Move 1Lore 1Performance 23STUDENT. You always knew that you were a little wiser than your friends. When a sage teacher took you on, you immersed yourself in the mysteries of the world. What you found in books was all that you had ever dreamed of and more.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 5Empathy 3Crafting 1Lore 3Insight 1Healing 14ACROBAT. As a child you were agile and nimble, climbed everywhere, and discov-ered every nook in your neighborhood of the village. You learned the art of perfor-mance, and the importance of beauty in the Forbidden Lands.Strength 3Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 4Stealth 1Move 2Sleight of Hand 2 Performance 1 5FIGHTER. You learned early on that you were talented with weapons. Soon, you were taken on by a warrior who taught you the mysteries of battle. You trained hard and long, and in time you became your master’s equal.Strength 4Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 3Might 1Endurance 1Melee 2Marksmanship 26GHOST CHILD. You grew up without a real family or home. Instead, you sought out other youths who had run away or been cast out. You were called ghost children, and lived by stealing and performing odd jobs.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Melee 1Stealth 2Sleight of Hand 2 Insight 1 Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories98D6CHILDHOOD, HALFLINGATTRIBUTESSKILLS1BAKER’S APPRENTICE. You have always loved the scent of freshly baked bread. Since childhood, you have worked in the kitchen, baking bread that’d make any-one’s mouth water.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Crafting 2Sleight of Hand 1Lore 1Survival 1Performance 1 2LABORER. You worked on a farm, per-forming menial, laborious chores. You know everything about grains, cattle, and crops. But deep inside you longed for something else.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Might 2Melee 1Crafting 1Survival 1Animal Handling 13CRAFTSMAN. You were always skilled with your fingers, and learned to master a craft early on. You expressed yourself through the objects you created. But they also made you long to see the works of the real masters.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Melee 1Crafting 3Lore 1Insight 1 4RAISED IN THE KITCHEN. You spent almost all of your childhood in the kitchen. Among the scents of soups, stews, and brews. You learned the secrets of spices and the joy of a well­cooked meal.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Crafting 2Sleight of Hand 1Lore 1Survival 1Animal Handling 15BOOKWORM. When other children played in the forest, you preferred to bury your nose in an old book, reading of myths, dragons, and treasures.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 4Lore 3Insight 1Manipulation 1Healing 16LONER. You have never felt at home among your people, always keeping to yourself. You grew up in the  shadow of your comrades. You saw things they didn’t see, did things they never  imagined. Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Melee 1Stealth 2Sleight of Hand 1Scouting 1Manipulation 1Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories10D6CHILDHOOD, GOBLINATTRIBUTESSKILLS1WOLFLING. Your parents abandoned you when you were a child, but you found a new home with a wolf pack. You became one of the wolves, howled at the moon, loped across the plains, and ate raw flesh. Strength 4Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 3Endurance 1Melee 1Stealth 1Move 1Animal Handling 22SCROUNGER. You learned as a child that the ownership of objects is nothing but a fleeting thought. You have always had a talent for acquiring things that aren’t yours. It’s like they just... appear.Strength 3Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 4Stealth 2Scouting 2Insight 1Manipulation 13CHILD OF THE WOODS. You grew up under the cover of the forest. You climbed the trees, and felt the wind whisper among the leaves. It is in the forest that you feel safe, and you know that its creatures will always protect you.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Endurance 1Move 1Marksmanship 1Scouting 1Survival 24WILDLING. Your clan was a bunch of mav-ericks who didn’t care for old lineages and pacts. You grew up wild and free, no one has ever been able to tell you what to do.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Might 1Melee 2Move 2Survival 15WANDERER. You had no fixed place in life, the road was your home, and you learned to find shelter from the Blood Mist every night. Already as a child, you had seen more of the land than most.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Survival 2Animal Handling 16STORYTELLER. As a wee goblin, you sat by the fire, eyes like saucers, and listened to the legends of your people being told by the clan elder. In your mind, you traveled through time and space, and relived the fantastic stories. You made sure that you learned all you could from the old goblin, and it didn’t take long before you became one of the clan’s storytellers.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 5Lore 1Manipulation 2Performance 3Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories1110D6CHILDHOOD, ORCATTRIBUTESSKILLS1MINSTREL. It was in the stories of the suffering of your people that you found your true self. In your youth, you learned the songs of the betrayal of the elves, and the blood spilt in the wars. You will never forget. Strength 3Agility 3Wits 4Empathy 5Lore 1Insight 1Manipulation 1Performance 32WORKER. Life was hard, even as a young orc. You have toiled for as long as you can remember. Worked hard to be able to live your life as you please.Strength 5Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 3Might 2Endurance 2Crafting 23BRIGAND. A strong orc is an orc that can care for himself. You realized early on that you must steal to survive. And why not? The orcs have been betrayed time and time again.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Melee 2Stealth 1Sleight of Hand 1Scouting 1Survival 14DRIFTER. You grew up on the road, in the forest, and on the plains. Traveling by day and hiding from the Blood Mist by night. You have never been able to settle in one place. Your restless legs won’t let you.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Survival 2Animal Handling 15WARRIOR. You grew up on the battlefield. Had already slain your first enemy as a young orc. It was with weapon in hand that you felt respected for the first time.Strength 5Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 3Might 1Melee 2Marksmanship 2Move 16LONER. You have never felt at home among your people, always keeping to yourself. You grew up in the shadow of your comrades. You saw things they didn’t see, did things they never im-agined.Strength 4Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 3Melee 1Scouting 1Insight 2Survival 2Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories12D6CHILDHOOD, WOLFKINATTRIBUTESSKILLS1HOWLER. You grew up among the howlers, wolfkin that moved between the clans, their own masters, free. You were trained in the telling of the tragic legends that have been told by generations of howlers before you.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Lore 1Manipulation 1Performance 3Survival 12HUNTER. Already as a young pup you learned that blood is life. The  older  hunters in the clan taught you to  respect the animals, even as you kill them. The hunt is the basis of life. Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 2Survival 23OUTCAST. When the other cubs ran with the pack, you were cast out. Alone, you learned to live off the forest, and that other kin could be more kind than your own. One day, you will find your way home.Strength 4Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 3Melee 1Scouting 1Insight 2Survival 24TRACKER. You learned early on that your sense of smell was better than your comrades, and you soon realized that you could find the most amazing things if you just followed your snout.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 5Empathy 3Stealth 2Scouting 3Survival 15FIGHTER. You were the strongest in your litter, and completely dominated your siblings’ games. As you grew bigger, the elders in the clan saw that you were a natural fighter, and trained you in the secrets of battle. Strength 5Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 3Might 2Melee 3Move 16CHILD OF THE FOREST. Ever since you were a child, you’ve been drawn to the fruits of the forests, to flowers, herbs, and lakes. You learned everything you could from the clan’s herbalist, the scent of every flower, and which plants nurtured life – or ended it.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Lore 2Scouting 1Survival 3Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories1312D6CHILDHOOD, DWARFATTRIBUTESSKILLS1SMITH’S APPRENTICE. It was always in the sweltering heat of the forge that you felt most at home. You learned the mystery of steel during many long days in the glow of the fire.Strength 5Agility 3Wits 4Empathy 3Might 1Endurance 1Melee 1Crafting 32MINEBORN. Already as a child, you learned to navigate in the darkness, deep below the earth. It was in the presence of the rock and the cold that you felt most at home. Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Endurance 2Crafting 1Scouting 1Survival 23SCOUT’S APPRENTICE. You were always perceptive, always curious. It soon came to the attention of your clan members, and you were handpicked to learn the duties of a scout. Many long days where spent hiding,  watching the dangers of the Forbidden Lands.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 3Melee 1Stealth 2Scouting 2Survival 14GUARDIAN-IN-TRAINING. You were chosen to be a guardian­in­training, serving as something similar to a squire to a proud and powerful dwarven warrior. It was arduous work, but also educational. Your master taught you to handle weapons, to temper your courage, and to stand proud – no matter the dangers you face. Strength 5Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 3Might 2Endurance 1Melee 2Marksmanship 1 5CARVER. Dwarves have always burrowed inwards and downwards. Created life out of rock. As a child you were fascinated by the art of shaping the mountain after your image. You became a carver, an engi-neer and builder, who worked as much with the mind as with brute strength. Strength 4Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 3Might 1Crafting 2Lore 2Survival 16HARD STUDIES. A learned man or woman took you under his/her wing, and set you to studying the elder writings. The days were long, but in the end, you found that knowledge was the key to the world.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 4Crafting 1Lore 3Insight 1Manipulation 1Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories14D6CHILDHOOD, ELFATTRIBUTESSKILLS1LONER. You have never felt at home among your people, always keeping to yourself. You grew up in the shadow of your comrades. You saw things they didn’t see, did things they never  magined.Strength 4Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 3Melee 1Scouting 1Insight 2Survival 22FIGHTER. You learned early on that you were talented with weapons. Soon you were taken on by a warrior who taught you the mysteries of battle. You trained hard and long, and in time you became your master’s equal.Strength 4Agility 5Wits 3Empathy 3Might 1Endurance 1Melee 2Marksmanship 23CHILD OF THE FOREST. Ever since you were a child, you’ve been drawn to the fruits of the forests, to flowers, herbs, and lakes. You learned everything you could from the clan’s herbalist, the scent of every flower and which plants nurtured life – or ended it.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 4Empathy 4Lore 2Scouting 1Survival 34HARD STUDIES. A learned man or woman took you under his/her wing and set you to studying the elder writings. The days were long, the learning hard, but in the end, you found that knowledge was the key to the world.Strength 3Agility 3Wits 5Empathy 4Crafting 1Lore 3Insight 1Manipulation 15WANDERER. You had no fixed place in life, the road was your home, and you learned to find shelter from the Blood Mist every night. Already as a child, you had seen more of the land than most.Strength 4Agility 4Wits 3Empathy 4Endurance 1Melee 1Scouting 1Survival 2Animal Handling 16DRUID’S APPRENTICE. You were  apprenticed to a druid, and learned everything you could of the holy mysteries, of rituals and sorcery. Your master is long dead or dissapeared, but you still remember his/her words.Strength 3Agility 4Wits 5Empathy 3Scouting 1Lore 1Survival 2Healing 1Animal Handling 1Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories1514PROFESSIOND66PROFESSION11–14Druid15–23Fighter24–33Hunter34–42Minstrel43–46Peddler51–54Rider55–62Rogue63–66SorcererPROFESSION TALENTD61–23–45–6DruidPath of HealingPath of Shifting ShapesPath of SightFighterPath of the BladePath of the ShieldPath of the EnemyHunterPath of the BeastPath of the ArrowPath of the ForestMinstrelPath of the SongPath of the HymnPath of WarcryPeddlerPath of GoldPath of Many ThingsPath of LiesRiderPath of the CompanionPath of the KnightPath of the PlainsRoguePath of the FacePath of the PoisonPath of the KillerD81–23–45–67–8SorcererPath of SignsPath of StonePath of BloodPath of DeathBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories16D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, DRUIDSKILLSTALENT1PILGRIMAGE. You performed a pilgrimage that lead you across the Forbidden Lands, braving the hor-rible Blood Mist. You barely survived and reached your destination after many hardships. You will never forget your perilous journey.  Receive a staff, a backpack, and a waterskin.Lore 1Survival 1Wanderer2HUNTED. Something happened that forced you to run for your life. Maybe you rubbed the wrong person the wrong way, maybe you were accused of something you hadn’t done.   Receive D3 doses sleeping poison and a dagger.Melee 1Move 1Sixth Sense3UNEXPECTED FIND. You found a treasure marked with the sign of your god. You saw this as a sign that your mission was righteous, but others didn’t see it the same way. Maybe there is still someone looking for the treasure?  Roll once on the table for Valuable finds in the lair, reroll if the result is below 32.Crafting 1Survival 1Lucky4STUDIED WITH A MASTER. A wise druid took you under his/her wing and taught you for a long pe-riod. It was an intense time, but also educational. Maybe your master is still alive somewhere, may-be he/she was killed by the Iron Guard.  Receive parchment, ink, and quill.Lore 1Healing 1Sharp Tongue5PROTECTED THE FOREST. You took it upon yourself to protect a forest against the evil and violence of strangers. You lived in the cover of proud trees, one with the beings of the forest.  Receive a short bow and a D12 Resource Die for arrows.Marksman-ship 1Animal  Handling 1Herbalist6LIVED AS A HERMIT. You sought the beauty of nature, away from the violent conflicts of the Forbidden Lands. When you finally returned to the land, you did so with newfound strength.  Receive a staff, a tent, and a field kitchen.Endurance 1Survival 1Path-finderBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories1716D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, HUNTERSKILLSTALENT1HUNTED A BEAST. The hunt was everything. You tracked the beast over land, water, and mountain. At times, the roles were reversed, maybe at times you were the prey?  Receive a short spear and a bear trap.Melee 1Scouting 1 Spear Fighter2LIVED OFF THE FOREST. You dwelt in the forest and lived off it. During the days you hunted, and at night, you slept under the open sky. It was a simple but good life. It had to end one day.  Receive a throwing spear and a dagger.Marksman-ship 1Survival 1Master of the Hunt3TAMED A MOUNT. You caught a wild horse (or  another suitable animal). It wasn’t easy, but after a long time you tamed the creature and in time you became inseparable.   Receive a mount of your choice. It cannot be a warhorse. You also get a staff.Animal Handling 2Horse-back Archer4WON AN ARCHERY COMPETITION. You realized early on that you had a natural talent for archery, and set out to become even better. When you visited a village or castle, you won a competition.  Receive a longbow and a D12 Resource Die for arrows.Marksman-ship 2Sharp-shooter5GUIDE. You loaned your talents as a guide to  those who paid the most silver. You led cara-vans of peddlers, troops of soldiers, and curious  adventurers. You learned to avoid the Blood Mist and live off the land.  Receive a tent, a cauldron, and a knife.Scouting 2Path-finder6HUNTED FOR A LORD. A nobleman noticed your skills and hired you as his forester. You lived a good life, half of the time in comfort in the lord’s castle, the rest of the time hunting in the woods.  Receive a well­sewn cloak, a sleeping fur, and a short bow.Marksman-ship 1Insight 1Sixth SenseBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories18D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, FIGHTERSKILLSTALENT1CAPTURED. You were shamefully captured by enemies. You were thrown in a dungeon to be forgotten and die. When the opportunity arose to escape, you took it.  Receive studded leather armor and a shortsword.Might 1Survival 1Pain  Resistant2BLOODY BATTLE. You took part in a terrible battle and were badly injured. When dawn broke, your friends had been defeated to the last man, and the enemy had left you to the ravens.   Receive a longsword.Melee 2Sword Fighter3A LONG MARCH. You signed on as a soldier and marched across the Forbidden Lands. You barely remember what you fought for, or who your ene-mies were. But you remember how the Blood Mist took your friends one by one.   Receive a tent, a cauldron, and a handaxe.Survival 1Healing 1Pack Rat4ON HORSEBACK. You learned to ride and signed on as a knight with a lord. You fought in skirmishes, patrolled and guarded the country from enemies.   Receive a mount of your choice (not warhorse).Melee 1Animal  Handling 1Horseback Fighter5SCOUT. You signed on with a band of  soldiers and were placed in the vanguard as a scout. Your task was to spot the enemy before they spotted you, and you were good at it. Maybe something happened to your companions, maybe you weren’t paying attention just that once?  Receive a light crossbow and a D12 Resource Die for arrows.Scouting 1Marksman-ship 1Defender6COMMANDER. You commanded a squad of soldiers. Your comrades looked up to you and would die for you. But something happened, maybe you were betrayed, maybe defeated in an ambush. Your comrades fell or fled, but you survived.  Receive chainmail armor, a closed helmet, and a broadsword.Lore 1Manipula-tion 1Cold  BloodedBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories1918D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, SORCERERSKILLSTALENT1FAILED EXPERIMENT. You performed a magical experiment that failed catastrophically. Maybe someone was seriously injured, maybe you were banished from your home.   Receive a staff and D6 doses of hallucinogenic poison.Lore 1Healing 1Poisoner2SECLUDED STUDIES. You sought out a secluded  location to immerse yourself in the study of magic. You lived off nature and your books and scrolls were your only companions.  Receive a small tent, a cauldron, and a knife.Lore 1Survival 1Quarter-master3FOUND STRANGE ARTIFACT. You found a strange  artifact. You became obsessed with its history and the thought that it might hold magical powers.  Roll once on the table for Valuable finds in the lair. Re­ roll if the result is below 32.Crafting 1 Insight 1Incorruptible4COURT MAGICIAN. You took employment with a local lord and served as his arcane advisor. Maybe the lord had a hidden agenda, maybe you got into a conflict with higher ranking advisors. You learned much about people in positions of power.   Receive a a staff, a bottle of wine, and a cloak.Insight 1Manipula-tion 1Sharp  Tongue5ENTERTAINER. You worked as an entertainer, using your knowledge of magic to perform illusions and tricks. Maybe you worked at a run down inn, maybe you were employed at a lord’s court.   Receive fine garments and a crystal ball.Manipula-tion 2Lightning Fast6ENLISTED. You were enlisted in a company of soldiers. You spent a long time in the field where you assisted with your magical expertise. You saw comrades killed, but you managed to make it out with just an ugly scar or two.  Receive studded leather armor, a closed hel-met, and a shortsword.Melee 1 Healing 1DefenderBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories20D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, PEDDLERSKILLSTALENT1CARAVAN. You were part of an trade caravan that braved the Blood Mist. The caravan encountered many dangers, losing many to the Blood Mist. Not everyone made it to the final destination. Maybe someone was left behind on the way?  Receive a donkey and a knife.Animal Handling 1Manipula-tion 1Wanderer2LOCAL BUSINESS. You saw a financial opportunity and you made the most of it. Maybe you imported fruit to a lord’s castle, maybe you sold fabrics from Alderland. Business went swimmingly – for a while.  Receive a cart and a staff.Insight 1Manipula-tion 1Lucky3CHEATED. A trusted companion deceived you and left you destitute. You learned an important lesson the hard way, and had to spend a long time rebuilding your life from the rubble. Maybe your old companion is still alive?  Receive a small tent, a blanket and a cauldron.Insight 2Incorrupt-ible4SIDE MISSION. You teamed up with a group of adven-turers and went on an adventure in the Forbid-den Lands. You faced many dangers, avoiding the Blood Mist that took many of your friends, and you learned much about yourself on the way.  Receive chainmail armor and a shortsword.Melee 1 Lore 1Fearless5SMUGGLER. You made your silver by smuggling con-traband between the settlements of the Forbidden Lands, staying clear of Rust Brothers and avoiding the Blood Mist. You learned the importance of dis-cretion and how to avoid attention.  Receive a spyglass and a dagger.Scouting 1Insight 1Sixth Sense6RAN A SHOP. You chose to settle in a village and run a shop for a period of your life. You could live off of it, but not very well. In the end, you realized that the quiet existence wasn’t for you.  Receive a scale, ink, a quill, and parchment.Manipula-tion 2Sharp TongueBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories2120D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, RIDERSKILLSTALENT1ENLISTED. You joined a company of soldiers. Maybe you joined of your own free will, may-be you were conscripted. With your comrades you braved many hardships: battles, sieges and the feared Blood Mist. In the end, something  happened to make you leave the company.  Receive studded leather armor, a large shield, and a short spear.Melee 1Marksman-ship 1Horse-back Fighter2COMPETED. You earned a living as a competitive rider, and traveled from village to village, castle to castle and competed against other riders. As long as you were winning you had a good life, but when you started losing, it was time to move on.  Receive a cloak and a dagger.Move 1Animal  Handling 1Fast Footwork3TRAVELED THE LAND. Your lust for adventure took over, and you went out for a long ride across the Forbidden Lands, braving the deadly Blood Mist. You rode through miserable wastes, severe storms, and braved many dangers.  Receive a small tent, a cauldron, and a blanket.Survival 1Scouting 1Herbalist4CARAVAN GUARD. You took employment as a guard in a caravan, escorting peddlers from village to village through dark forests and high mountains, always making sure to avoid the terrible Blood Mist.  Receive a long spear.Melee 1Scouting 1Path-finder5CATTLE HERDER. You herded livestock to greener pastures. In the daytime, you guarded the herd from horseback. At night, you made sure that the Blood Mist did not take any animals.  Receive a lantern, a waterskin, and a knife. Move 1Animal  Handling 1Quarter-master6STEPPE RIDER. You rode across the steppes of the Forbidden Lands and lived simply by hunting and selling meat and animal hides.  Receive a short bow and a D12 Resource Die for arrows.Marksman-ship 1Animal  Handling 1TannerRiders always start the game with a riding horse.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories22D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, MINSTRELSKILLSTALENT1WROTE A POPULAR BALLAD. A ballad or story that you wrote became immensely popular in the  surrounding area. To this day, you hear local  minstrels performing your piece.   Receive ink, a feather, and parchment.Manipulation 1Performance 1Lucky2WORKED AS A MINSTREL. You used your artistic  talents to make a living as a minstrel. Maybe you were of the traveling kind, maybe you worked at a more permanent location, like a tavern or a castle.  Receive a lute.Performance 2Sharp Tongue3INSPIRATIONAL JOURNEY. You went on a  journey from village to village, to learn of the kin, cultures, and legends. On your journey you  encountered many adventures, escaped the Blood Mist and gathered enough material to fill a smaller book of ballads.  Receive a small tent, a blanket, and a cauldron.Lore 1Survival 1Fear-less4SANG FOR A LORD. Your talent drew the attention of a local lord and he offered you a place as an enter-tainer at his court. Your time in the castle was filled with wine, delicious food, and clinking silver. But also insidious intrigue, assassinations, and jealousy.   Receive fine garments and a dagger.Insight 1Performance 1Sixth Sense5ENLISTED. Life took an unexpected turn and you were enlisted in a company of soldiers. Life in camp was rough, but you made faithful friends and learned to live off the land.  Receive leather armor, an open helmet, and a short bow (D8 Resource Die for arrows).Melee 1Survival 1De-fender6DUELED A RIVAL. A rival saw you as a thorn in his side. For a period, your fates were intertwined in the most troublesome ways. In the end, it was too much. You were  challenged to a duel, and you were injured. Maybe your rival is still out there.  Receive a short sword.Melee 1Healing 1Sword FighterBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories2322D6FORMATIVE EVENTS, ROGUESKILLSTALENT1STOLE FROM THE WRONG PERSON. It was the  perfect crime. For a while. You stole something valuable from the wrong person, at the wrong time. You were hunted and had to run for your life.  Receive lockpicks and a throwing knives.Sleight of Hand 1Move 1Lightning Fast 2IMPRISONED. Guilty or not, you were caught and thrown in jail. You had to spend a long time in the darkness but never gave up. Finally, the chance to escape emerged, and you took it.  Receive a dagger.Endurance 1 Survival 1Pain  Resistant3SUCCESSFUL HEIST. You planned and successfully performed a heist. Maybe it was against a rich peddler, maybe against a local lord.   Receive an item from Valuable finds in a lair. Reroll if the result is below 33.Sleight of Hand 1Stealth 1Lucky4JOINED A GUILD OF THIEVES. You sought out an association of thieves and became a part of the community. Together, you planned heists, and carried out dangerous missions.  Receive leather armor and a dagger.Insight 1 Scouting 1Sixth Sense5ENLISTED. You found yourself, probably against your will, enlisted in a company of soldiers. There you worked as a scout, and ranged far ahead of the others. Your time there was filled with misery and dangers, but also friendship.  Receive a short bow and a D12 Resource Die for arrows.Marksman-ship 1 Scouting 1Pathfinder6BAND OF ROBBERS. You disappeared into the woods and joined a band of robbers that lived off peddlers and caravans who stumbled into their path. Life in the forest was carefree and good for as long as it lasted, but in the end, the robbers were ousted from the woods.  Receive a short sword.Melee 1 Survival 1Lightning FastBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories24HOW DID YOU MEET?D66HOW DID YOU MEET?11–12CARAVAN. You participated in a caravan that traveled through the  Forbidden Lands. Maybe you were employed as a guard, maybe you were a guide. During the journey you got to know some adventurers who were part of the caravan. After many hardships you finally reached your destination, and in the process, you found new friends.13–14AMBUSH. During a journey through the Forbidden Lands you and your party were ambushed. Your friends were slain in the battle, but you were rescued at the last minute by some strangers who brought you to  safety. You have been friends ever since.15–16IMPRISONED. You were captured and thrown in a dungeon. It may have been robbers, soldiers, or Rust Brothers that imprisoned you. But you were not alone – in the dungeon, there were other adventurers in the same situation. Together, you managed to escape.21–22ALL NIGHT BENDER. You don’t remember much of the evening, only that there was a proper celebration. In the haze, you met some drinking  buddies in the form of other adventurers, and you shared tankards of wine, stories, and even had a little bit of a tussle before dawn broke. You have been friends since.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstoriesbackstories252423–24SEARCHED FOR AN ARTIFACT. You searched long and hard for the treasure, traveled across the land, braved dangers. But just when you were about to get your hands on the artifact, it turned out that some other  adventurers had the same plan. It was a precarious dilemma, but on the way to the nearest village to appraise the treasure, you realized that you had more in common than you’d imagined. You split the money and became friends.25–26SAVED BY ADVENTURERS. You were in trouble, maybe you had been captured by the Iron Guard, maybe you had been caught by slave traders. But fate had other plans, and you were dramatically saved by some other adventurers at the last moment.31–32CAPTURED BY ANOTHER ADVENTURER. At one time you were enemies. You were outwitted and captured by some other adventurers. But during your captivity, your animosity turned to friendship, you realized that you had even more dangerous enemies in common and joined forces.33–34CHILDHOOD FRIENDS. You grew up together with another adventurer. You played together, shared meals, and met each other’s families. But something happened one day that caused you to go your separate ways. Many years passed until the day your paths crossed once more. You are not the same people you were when you were kids, but you share a strong bond.35–36MUTUAL DEBT. You don’t really know how it happened, but suddenly you found yourself owing an absurd amount of silver to a person you really don’t want to put yourself at odds with. But you weren’t alone, another group of adventurers had put themselves in the same situation, and together you managed to amass enough silver to pay off the debt.41–42 FOUGHT A BLOODY BATTLE. You fought in a battle where many lives were lost. It was a difficult fight, maybe you came close to dying yourself, but in the end, you found brothers and sisters in arms in the form of some other adventurers. Together, you made it through the bloody day with your lives intact. But the scars remain.43–44HUNTED BY RUST BROTHERS. Something you did was perceived as an insult against Rust or Heme. The Rust Brothers didn’t take your action kindly, and sent the Iron Guard to capture you. In your flight, you found a group of other adventurer in the same plight. Together you outsmarted your pursuers. Maybe they’ll catch your scent again?D66HOW DID YOU MEET?Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories26D66HOW DID YOU MEET?45–46PLUNDERED THE SAME DUNGEON. You searched long and hard for the treasure, braved the dangers of the dungeon, and finally found it – only to realize that you weren’t alone. Other adventurers had followed the same map, looking for the same treasure. A delicate dilemma, but some-how you became friends despite it all.51–52CAUGHT IN A STORM. One dark night, you sought shelter from a terrible storm. In the sheltering crevice you found a few other adventurers warming themselves by a fire. You endured the storm together, and during the long night, told each other legends of ancient heroes and monsters. You have been friends since. 53–54CAUGHT BY SLAVERS. You were caught by a brutal gang of slave traders. Beaten within an inch of your life and caged like a dog. In the cages, you met some other unfortunate adventurers who had suffered the same fate. Somehow you managed to escape the slavers. Maybe you exacted your revenge then, maybe you still thirst for it.55–56CAPTURED BY SAURIANS. You wandered too far into the marshes. Suddenly, you were lost in the fog with only the sounds of strange creatures for company. In that moment, you were surrounded by dozens of Saurians, hissing amongst themselves. You were brought to their village deep in the wetlands, and met a few other adventurers who had been captured the same way. You eventually managed to escape. Maybe you hate Saurians now, maybe you acquired unexpected allies. 61–62HIRED GUARDS. You and the other adventurers were hired to guard some-one. Maybe it was a trade caravan, maybe the traveling child of a lord. During the mission, you overcame dangers and realized that you worked well together. 63–64TRIAL BY COMBAT. Somehow you got into a fight with another adventurer. After having exchanged insults, curses, and threats, you agreed to settle your conflict through trial by combat. Both of you fought bravely and both were wounded, but in the end, you had to give up the fight when you ran out of steam. After the duel, it was as if your animosity had dissolved, instead you became friends and since that day you are inseparable.65–66SURVIVED A SHIPWRECK. You traveled on a ship that happened upon dire straits. The ship was smashed to bits against sharp rocks in the storm, and most of the crew perished in the waves. But you and some other adventurers miraculously managed to survive. It took days before you were found, but you made it. Since that day you share an unforgettable memory.27Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

backstories26Use the following tables to create your own legends and myths that give life to the Forbidden Lands. Legends of your own can be especially useful to give the adventurers something to search for on the map instead of aimlessly roaming the land. You can convey the legends through NPCs, inhabitants of villages, or finds. Use the tables to create the basis of your own legends as some-thing to build on. Change and add to the leg-end as you see fit, and elaborate where you can. It is you as a GM who decides the verity of the legend, maybe it is just an old rumor, maybe it is all a misunderstanding, or maybe the legend is completely true.A LONG TIME AGO...D66ACTUAL AGE IN YEARS11–12Before the Shift1,100+13–26Before the Blood Mist300–1,10031–43During the Alder Wars305–360 44–66In the age of the Blood Mist5–280LEGEND GENERATOR27legend generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

2928...THERE WAS A ...D6611BloodthirstyElf12VengefulDwarf13GreedyPeddler14Unhappy in loveSmith15IngeniousFarmer16EnterprisingApprentice21KindDruid22PerseverantShepherd23–24TreacherousRaven Sister25–26MoralRust Brother31–32SkilledRider33–34StingyTreasure Hunter35–36VainPriest41–42WiseSorcerer43–44BeautifulRobber Chieftain45–46HonorableWarrior51–52JealousLord53–54CruelPrince55–56DeterminedPrincess61–62CunningQueen63–64ScaredKing65–66EvilNot who, what! Roll a D6.  1: Unit of Soldiers, 2: Village, 3: Cult,  4. Band of Robbers, 5: Cabal, 6: Monster.legend generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

29legend generator…WHO SOUGHT…D6611–14A weapon15–22A love23–26A friend in need31–34An enemy35–42A treasure43–46A map51–54A family member55–62An artifact63–66A monster... AND TRAVELED TO ...D66LOCATION11–16A ruin21–22A farm23–26A grave31–34A tower35–36A castle41–43A village44–53A cave54–56A hill61–63A tree64–66A water source... BECAUSE OF ...D6611–14Love15–16Friendship21–24A promise25–33A prophecy34–41A bet42–45Duty46–52War53–55Honor56–61Insanity62–63Dreams64–66Greed... LOCATED ...D61Here2Close by3A day’s march away4A few days off5Far away6On the other side of the Forbidden Landslegend generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

3130... IN A/SOME ...D66TERRAIN TYPE11–14Ruins15–21Marshlands22–24Quagmire25–34Plains35–44Forest45–53Hills54–63Dark Forest64Lake65–66MountainsAS THE LEGEND GOES,  IT IS SAID THAT HE/SHE...D66WHAT HAPPENED?11–14Was betrayed15–22Was murdered23–26Was never seen again31–33Starved to death34–36Took his/her own life41–44Died in battle45–52Was enchanted53–56Was possessed61–63Came back changed64–66Still searches... IN THE DIRECTION OF ...D8DIRECTION1North2North­East3East4South-East5South6South-West7West8North­West... AND THAT AT THE  LOCATION THERE IS/ARE...D66IT IS SAID THAT...11–14Gold, lots of gold15–22A powerful artifact23–26A suit of armor31–33A weapon34–36An invaluable book41–44A large treasure45–52A lost war chest53–56The remains of an  important person61–63A dwarven artifact64–66An elven rubylegend generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

31legend generator... BUT ALSO ...D6611–14AggressiveWolfkin15–22BloodthirstySlave Traders23–25CruelOrcs26–32HorribleGhosts33–34HungrySaurians35–43WatchfulIron Guards44–46StarvedUndead51–54GreedyRobbers55–61InsaneGoblins62–63MurderousOgres64–65ManicMonsters*66HuntingDemons*** Roll on the monsters table on page 74 in the Gamemaster’s Guide.** Roll a D6. 1–4: One demon, 5: Two demons, 6: D6 demons. Create the demons by using the tables on page 80 in the Gamemaster’s Guide. legend generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

MONSTER GENERATOR3332D66SIZESTRENGTH11–14Puny115–21Small222–33Average334–44Large445–55Big856–62Huge14+D663–66Gigantic30+2D6D66TYPEAGILITY11–13Grazing Cattle114–16Herbivore221–25Gatherer226–36Scavenger441–56Predator561–66Aggressive Predator8D66LIMBSCOMMENT11–13None—14–22TentaclesNumber: D6+223–252 legs—26–322 legs, 2 arms—33–464 legs—51–554 legs, 2 arms—56–65WingsRoll again for potential limbs.66Many!D6+2 legs and D6+2 arms  (round up to the closest even number).monster generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

33monster generatorD6TAILCOMMENT1–3None—4–5Tail—6Spiked Tail+1 damage for tail  attackD66ARMORRATING11–14Hide015–22Soft Fur123–36Thick Fur241–44Feathers245–53Scales354–61Shell562–64Bone Plates765–66Armored Hide9D66HEADCOMMENT11Lacks Head—12–16Beak—21–26HornNumber: D331–33Antlers—34–41TentaclesNumber: D6+242–43Insectoid Eyes—44–46Eyes on the Side—51Many Eyes2D6 eyes round up to the closest even number52–53Large Mane—54Long Tongue—55–56Big Ears—61–62Fin—63–66Roll Twice—monster generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

* Requires wings for longer periods of time, without wings the creature can only fly shorter distances3534monster generatorMOVEMENTD66PRIMARY METHODAGILITY 1–2AGILITY 3–4AGILITY 5+11–13Slithering11214–16Digging11221–25Swimming12226–46Running12251–56Flying*23361–66Climbing122HOMED66HOME11–14Den15–23Ruin24–32Waterhole33–36Tree/Vantage Point41–45Cave46–54Ravine55–66Underground LairSKILLSNot all monsters have skills, those who lack a skill level only roll their Base Dice. Roll in order on the table below for MELEE, STEALTH, MOVE, and SCOUTING.D66SKILL LEVEL11–41No skill42–46Level 151–54Level 255–62Level 363–64Level 465–66Level 5Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

35monster generatormonster generatorTRAITSRoll a D3 for number of traits, then roll as many  times as the dice show on the table below.D66TRAITSCOMMENT11Undead+2 in Strength.12–14InjuredHalved Strength.15–22ColorfulHide, horns or similar remains are worth 3D6 silver.23–26PoisonousRoll a D8. 1–2: Lethal Poison.  3–4: Paralyzing Poison. 5–6: Sleeping  Poison. 7–8: Hallucinogenic Poison.  Roll D6+2 to determine Potency.31–33RegeneratingRegains D3 Strength each round.34–35Impervious To MagicEqual to the spell Dispel Magic with a  Power Level of D6.36–42CamouflagedInsanely difficult (−3) to detect with  Scouting.43–44FastDraws two initiative cards at the start of battle and may act on both turns.45–52Sharp Hearing+2 levels in Scouting.53–54Acute Sense Of Smell+2 levels in Scouting.55–61Night VisionCan see unhindered in the dark.62Acid GlandsCan use acid attack.63Fire GlandsCan use fire attack.64IntelligentRoll a D6. 1–4: Can speak (see below),  5–6: Telepathic. Can have skill level in  Insight and Manipulation.65Can SpeakCan speak or mimic language.66Possessed By DemonIs actually a demon, see page 80 in the Gamemaster’s Guide.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

3736monster generatorD66WEAKNESSCOMMENT11–31None—32–36Sensitive to fireSuffers double damage from fire.41–42Sensitive to lightCan’t tolerate light, must move away from intense sources of light. If not possible, the creature takes D3 in damage from every individual source of light, D6 in damage from larger sources of light (like the sun) each round.43–45Scared of loud noisesLoud noises scare the beast. Bangs or loud noises make it flee, clattering shields or the like make it hesitate and it avoids the source.46–54Protects offspringHas offspring nearby, won’t leave the  location where they are.55–63Sensitive eyesAttacks against the eyes (FORMIDABLE  difficulty) do double damage.64–66Obsessed with everything that shimmersIf the creature sees something that  shimmers, like silver or a mirror, it will focus on the source of the shimmering.Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

37monster generatorATTACKS, REGULARRoll D3 times on the table below.D6ATTACKBASE DICEWEAPON DAMAGERANGE1–2Claws3+AgilityRoll a D6. 1–2: Damage 1, 3–5: Damage 2,  6: Damage 3Arm’s Length3–4Fangs4+AgilityRoll a D6. 1–2: Damage 1, 3–5: Damage 2,  6: Damage 3Arm’s Length5Horns/Headbutt5+AgilityRoll a D6. 1–4: Damage 2/1*, 5–6: Damage 3/2*Arm’s Length6Roar—Fear attack:  Strength D3+6Nearmonster generatorD66MOTIVATIONCOMMENT11–31TerritoryBound to its territory.32–35Give birth to  offspringThe creature is pregnant and wants to give birth to its offspring in peace36–44HungerThe creature is starving and will attack the juiciest adventurer and devour her if possible.45–46SickReceives the trait Injured.51ParasiteControlled by a parasitic entity, acts strangely.52–56To be left aloneOnly attacks if cornered.61–62FunHunts for fun.63–64Looking for a hostLooking for a creature that can serve as a host for their offspring in some way.65–66TreasureGuards treasure.* The second value applies for attacks from creatures that lack horns. Bruce Moser (Order #33149191)

3938ATTACKS, SPECIALIf the creature satisfies any of the requirements below,  it also receives the relevant special attack.REQUIREMENTATTACKBASE DICEWEAPON DAMAGERANGETailTail Attack3+Agility1NearTentaclesTentacles3+AgilityRoll a D6. 1–4: damage 1, 5–6: damage 2.  Then Grappled.NearFire GlandsBreathes FireD6+61. The victim continues to take the same amount of damage each round until the fire has been put out by a successful roll for Move.NearAcid GlandsSpits AcidD6+41. The victim continues to take 1 damage each round for D3 rounds.NearUndeadLethal Stare—Fear attack: Strength D6+4Nearmonster generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

39monster generatorMONSTER ATTACKSTo create unique tables for random monster attacks lies outside the capabilities of this monster generator. But with the help of the table below, and the tables for monster attacks on the previous pages, you can put together your own attack table based on the attributes of your monster. Replace the X with the ratings from the previous tables.ATTACKREQUIRESSAMPLE DESCRIPTIONBiteFangsThe beast bites the nearest adventurer with its razor­ sharp fangs. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (slash wound).KickLegsThe beast kicks the nearest adventurer with full force. The formidable power creates an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (blunt force). If the attack connects, the adventurer is thrown to Near distance and becomes prone.Crushing AttackStrength 5+The beast grips an adventurer and attempts to crush her to bits. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (blunt force).Sweeping AttackAgility 3+The beast sweeps its claws (or similar weapons) across two adventurers within Near distance. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (slash wound). Victims that are hit are also knocked prone.Slashing  AttackClawsThe beast slashes across an adventurer’s body with its sharp claws. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (slash wound). Tail Attack/Whip AttackTail or  TentaclesThe beast whips the tip of its tail/tentacle at an adventurer within Near distance. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (blunt force). If the attack hits, the victim is thrown to the ground.RoarStrength 6+The beast utters a deafening roar that causes all  adventurers within Near distance to suffer a fear  attack with X Base Dice. monster generatorBruce Moser (Order #33149191)

4040Devouring AttackStrength 14+The beast selects an adventurer and attempts to devour her. Roll for the attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (slash wound). If the at-tack  succeeds the victim is swallowed whole. The adventurer can continue to attack the beast from the inside where the beast lacks armor. The victim is freed when the beast dies. The victim suffers 1 point of damage each round in the belly of the beast.Acid AttackAcid GlandsThe beast opens its jaws and sprays a cloud of corrosive acid over the adventurers. All adventurers within Near distance suffer an attack with X Base Dice (Weapon Damage X). Victims that are hit continue to take 1 point of damage each round for D3 rounds.Fire AttackFire GlandsThe beast spews forth flames from its gullet and zooms in on an adventurer within Short distance. Roll for the attack with X Base Dice (Weapon Damage 1). If the attack connects, the victim suffers the same amount of damage each round until the fire has been quenched, either by the victim herself or a friend succeeding on a roll for Move (fast action).Diving  AttackWingsThe beast swoops through the air and slashes an unfortunate adventurer within Near distance with all its might. Perform an attack with X Base Dice and Weapon Damage X (slash wound). If the  attack hits, the victim is thrown to the ground.Lethal StareUndeadThe undead beast stares with dead eyes straight into the adventurer’s eyes. She suffers a fear attack with X Base Dice. If the attack hits, the victim is thrown to the ground.ATTACKREQUIRESSAMPLE DESCRIPTIONmonster generator